Terrain world components documentation (#1242)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/components/reference/terrain/world.md

---
linktitle: Terrain World
title: Terrain World Component
description: The Terrain World component allows the bounds of the world and the height query resolution to be set. 
toc: true
---

> The **Terrain World** component provides the data required for the Terrain System to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Terrain World** component provides the data required for other terrain system components.
```

Author: Changed.

## Provider ##

[Terrain Gem](/docs/user-guide/gems/reference/environment/terrain)

## Terrain World Properties ##

> ![\[Terrain World component interface.\]](/images/user-guide/component/terrain/terrain/ui-terrain-world-A.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Terrain World component interface.](/images/user-guide/component/terrain/terrain/ui-terrain-world-A.png)
```

Author: and changed!

| Property | Description | Values | Default |
| - | - | - | - |

> | World Bounds (min) | The minimum value for the worlds bounds. The **min** value must be less than the **max** value.| Vector3: -2048.0 to 2048.0 | X:0.0 Y:0.0 Z:0.0 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| World Bounds (min) | The minimum value for the worlds bounds. The **min** value must be less than the **max** value.| Vector3: -2048.0 to 2048.0 | X:`0.0`, Y:`0.0`, Z:`0.0` |
```

Author: Changed.

> | World Bounds (max) | The maximum value for the worlds bounds. The **max** value must be greater than the **min** value. | Vector3: -2048.0 to 2048.0 | X:1024.0 Y:1024.0 Z:1024.0 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| World Bounds (max) | The maximum value for the worlds bounds. The **max** value must be greater than the **min** value. | Vector3: -2048.0 to 2048.0 | X:`1024.0`, Y:`1024.0`, Z:`1024.0` |
```

Author: Changed.

> | Height Query Resolution (m) | The resolution required between each height sample. | Vector2: 0.001 to Infinity | X:1.0 Y:1.0 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Height Query Resolution (m) | The resolution required between each height sample, in meters. | Vector2: 0.001 to Infinity | X:`1.0`, Y:`1.0` |
```

Author: Changed.

{{< note >}}

> Because large numbers of samples can take a long time to calculate, O3DE will not allow the number of samples to exceed 8M.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because large numbers of terrain height samples can take a long time to calculate, O3DE will not allow the number of samples to exceed 8M.
```

Author: Changed.

> Because large numbers of terrain height samples can take a long time to calculate, O3DE will not allow the number of samples to exceed 8M.

Reviewer 2: 8M? 8 meters? 8 million? Should probably spell it out here.
